docs/formats/fonts.md, before:

---
tags:
  - status-analysis
---

# Fonts
Crimsonland ships two bitmap fonts:

- **Small font** (`smallFnt.dat` + `smallWhite.png`): variable-width, 16x16 atlas, used by `grim_draw_text_small`. [static]
- **Grim2D mono font** (resource id `0x6f`): fixed 16px grid, used by `grim_draw_text_mono`. [static]

## Small font (smallFnt.dat)

### Location

- `game_bins/crimsonland/1.9.93-gog/crimson.paq`: `load\smallFnt.dat`, `load\smallWhite.tga`
- Extracted to `artifacts/assets/crimson/load/smallFnt.dat` and `artifacts/assets/crimson/load/smallWhite.png`

### Layout

```
u8 widths[256]
```

`widths[i]` is the glyph advance in pixels for glyph index `i` (0-255).
The renderer uses the same value to size the UV width.

### Atlas + UVs

The extracted `smallWhite.png` (from `smallWhite.tga`) is 256x256 RGBA. The renderer treats it as a 16x16 grid,
so each glyph cell is 16x16. UV origins are:

```
u0 = (idx % 16) / 16
v0 = (idx / 16) / 16
u1 = u0 + widths[idx] / 256
v1 = v0 + 1/16
```

A small bias of 1/512 is applied to the U/V values in code to reduce bleeding.

### Rendering hooks (grim.dll)

- `grim_init_system` (`FUN_10005eb0`) loads `load\smallFnt.dat` and copies 0x100 bytes into `grim_font2_glyph_widths`.
- `grim_measure_text_width` (vtable offset `0x14c`) sums widths and returns the widest line.
- `grim_draw_text_small` (vtable offset `0x144`) binds `GRIM_Font2` and emits quads using the UV math above.
- `grim_font2_char_map` is initialized as an identity lookup table, so glyph index
  equals the byte value. [static]

## Grim2D mono font (grim_draw_text_mono)

### Source

- `grim_draw_text_mono` binds `grim_font_texture`, which is loaded from Grim2D resources
  (resource id `0x6f`). [static]

- This is not yet confirmed to match `default_font_courier.tga` from `crimson.paq`. [static]

### Behavior

- **Advance**: `16 * scale` (fixed). [static]
- **Line height**: `28 * scale` (newline step). [static]
- **Draw size**: `32 * scale` width x `32 * scale` height. [static]
- **Visual effect**: Characters are drawn at 2x the size of their horizontal spacing, creating a dense, tall appearance (effective 1:2 aspect ratio relative to the grid). [static]
- **UVs**: 16x16 table (`grim_font2_uv_u/v`), indexed directly by byte value (`grim_font2_char_map` is identity). [static]
- **Special codes**: Handles 0xA7, 0xE4, 0xE5, 0xF6 and `\n`. [static]

### Quest title overlay (runtime evidence)

The quest HUD renders the level number and title with separate mono draws:

- **Title** (`"Land Hostile"`) uses the base scale (0.75 at 640px width, 0.8 at larger widths). [static+runtime]
- **Number** (`"1.1"`) uses `base_scale - 0.2` (observed 0.55 when base is 0.75). [runtime]
- **Opacity**: number alpha is **50%** of title alpha (ratio 0.5 across captures). [runtime]
- **Position X**: computed dynamically based on string length: [static]
  ```
  number_x = title_x - (strlen(number) * number_scale * 8.0) - (number_scale * 32.0) - 4.0
  ```
  where `8.0` is half the font advance (16/2), `32.0` is the base gap, and `4.0` is a fixed offset.
  For "1.1" (3 chars) at scale 0.55: `3 * 0.55 * 8 + 0.55 * 32 + 4 = 34.8 px`.
  For "1.10" (4 chars) at scale 0.55: `4 * 0.55 * 8 + 0.55 * 32 + 4 = 39.2 px`. [static]
- **Position Y**: computed from number_scale: [static]
  ```
  number_y = title_y + (number_scale * 7.36)
  ```
  where `7.36 = 23.36 - 16.0` (constants at 0x46f5a0 and 0x46f230).
  At number_scale 0.55: `0.55 * 7.36 = 4.048 px` lower than title.
  At number_scale 0.60: `0.60 * 7.36 = 4.416 px` lower than title. [static]

Evidence: `artifacts/frida/share/quest_title_colors.jsonl` (quest HUD capture on 2026-01-20). Runtime logs show paired `draw_text_mono` calls for the title and number with the scale/alpha ratios above. Static analysis of `ui_render_hud` at 0x41bf94-0x41c01c confirms the dynamic x-position formula using strlen.

## Sample render (interactive)

```
uv run crimson view fonts
```

Commit message:

fix(font): match Grim2D mono glyph positioning
- In src/crimson/views/font_grim_mono.py:
  - compute advance and draw_size from font and scale
  - advance X before drawing each glyph (except after 0xA7)
  - implement 0xA7 handling (skip pre-advance for next glyph)
  - draw most glyphs at y + 1.0
- Update docs:
  - docs/formats/fonts.md: document cursor origin (pre-advance), baseline quirk (+1px), and clarify 0xA7 behavior
  - docs/grim2d/api-evidence.md: note that draw_text_mono advances X before drawing and draws glyphs at y + 1.0; mention 0xA7 special-case

docs/formats/fonts.md, after:

---
tags:
  - status-analysis
---

# Fonts
Crimsonland ships two bitmap fonts:

- **Small font** (`smallFnt.dat` + `smallWhite.png`): variable-width, 16x16 atlas, used by `grim_draw_text_small`. [static]
- **Grim2D mono font** (resource id `0x6f`): fixed 16px grid, used by `grim_draw_text_mono`. [static]

## Small font (smallFnt.dat)

### Location

- `game_bins/crimsonland/1.9.93-gog/crimson.paq`: `load\smallFnt.dat`, `load\smallWhite.tga`
- Extracted to `artifacts/assets/crimson/load/smallFnt.dat` and `artifacts/assets/crimson/load/smallWhite.png`

### Layout

```
u8 widths[256]
```

`widths[i]` is the glyph advance in pixels for glyph index `i` (0-255).
The renderer uses the same value to size the UV width.

### Atlas + UVs

The extracted `smallWhite.png` (from `smallWhite.tga`) is 256x256 RGBA. The renderer treats it as a 16x16 grid,
so each glyph cell is 16x16. UV origins are:

```
u0 = (idx % 16) / 16
v0 = (idx / 16) / 16
u1 = u0 + widths[idx] / 256
v1 = v0 + 1/16
```

A small bias of 1/512 is applied to the U/V values in code to reduce bleeding.

### Rendering hooks (grim.dll)

- `grim_init_system` (`FUN_10005eb0`) loads `load\smallFnt.dat` and copies 0x100 bytes into `grim_font2_glyph_widths`.
- `grim_measure_text_width` (vtable offset `0x14c`) sums widths and returns the widest line.
- `grim_draw_text_small` (vtable offset `0x144`) binds `GRIM_Font2` and emits quads using the UV math above.
- `grim_font2_char_map` is initialized as an identity lookup table, so glyph index
  equals the byte value. [static]

## Grim2D mono font (grim_draw_text_mono)

### Source

- `grim_draw_text_mono` binds `grim_font_texture`, which is loaded from Grim2D resources
  (resource id `0x6f`). [static]

- This is not yet confirmed to match `default_font_courier.tga` from `crimson.paq`. [static]

### Behavior

- **Advance**: `16 * scale` (fixed). [static]
- **Cursor origin**: `x` is treated as a cursor origin; the renderer **advances X before drawing** each glyph by `16 * scale` (except when the 0xA7 control code marks the next glyph as “no pre-advance”). [static]
- **Line height**: `28 * scale` (newline step). [static]
- **Draw size**: `32 * scale` width x `32 * scale` height. [static]
- **Baseline quirk**: Most glyph quads are drawn at `y + 1.0` (literal +1px, not scaled). [static]
- **Visual effect**: Characters are drawn at 2x the size of their horizontal spacing, creating a dense, tall appearance (effective 1:2 aspect ratio relative to the grid). [static]
- **UVs**: 16x16 table (`grim_font2_uv_u/v`), indexed directly by byte value (`grim_font2_char_map` is identity). [static]
- **Special codes**: 0xA7 (skip pre-advance for next glyph), plus 0xE4/0xE5/0xF6 and `\n`. [static]

### Quest title overlay (runtime evidence)

The quest HUD renders the level number and title with separate mono draws:

- **Title** (`"Land Hostile"`) uses the base scale (0.75 at 640px width, 0.8 at larger widths). [static+runtime]
- **Number** (`"1.1"`) uses `base_scale - 0.2` (observed 0.55 when base is 0.75). [runtime]
- **Opacity**: number alpha is **50%** of title alpha (ratio 0.5 across captures). [runtime]
- **Position X**: computed dynamically based on string length: [static]
  ```
  number_x = title_x - (strlen(number) * number_scale * 8.0) - (number_scale * 32.0) - 4.0
  ```
  where `8.0` is half the font advance (16/2), `32.0` is the base gap, and `4.0` is a fixed offset.
  For "1.1" (3 chars) at scale 0.55: `3 * 0.55 * 8 + 0.55 * 32 + 4 = 34.8 px`.
  For "1.10" (4 chars) at scale 0.55: `4 * 0.55 * 8 + 0.55 * 32 + 4 = 39.2 px`. [static]
- **Position Y**: computed from number_scale: [static]
  ```
  number_y = title_y + (number_scale * 7.36)
  ```
  where `7.36 = 23.36 - 16.0` (constants at 0x46f5a0 and 0x46f230).
  At number_scale 0.55: `0.55 * 7.36 = 4.048 px` lower than title.
  At number_scale 0.60: `0.60 * 7.36 = 4.416 px` lower than title. [static]

Evidence: `artifacts/frida/share/quest_title_colors.jsonl` (quest HUD capture on 2026-01-20). Runtime logs show paired `draw_text_mono` calls for the title and number with the scale/alpha ratios above. Static analysis of `ui_render_hud` at 0x41bf94-0x41c01c confirms the dynamic x-position formula using strlen.

## Sample render (interactive)

```
uv run crimson view fonts
```
