docs/index.md, before:

---
tags:
  - docs-hub
---

# Crimsonland documentation

A from-scratch rewrite of Crimsonland (2003), aiming for full parity with the
original Windows executable. These docs cover the game's mechanics, the rewrite
implementation, and the reverse engineering work that ties them together.

[Blog post](https://banteg.xyz/posts/crimsonland/) • [Source code](https://github.com/banteg/crimson)

## Play now

Install [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/), then:

```bash
uvx crimsonland@latest
```

## Highlights

- [Perks](mechanics/perks.md): all 58 perks with exact numbers, interaction
  rules, and original bug notes verified against two builds of the binary.

## Sections

- [Mechanics](mechanics/index.md): how the game actually plays. Behavior
  specs, reference tables, and game rules written without decompiler details.
- [Rewrite](rewrite/index.md): the Python port. Architecture, module map,
  debug views, and parity status.
- [Reverse engineering](re/index.md): static analysis, runtime probes, struct
  layouts, and file formats extracted from the original binary.
- [Verification](verification/index.md): differential testing, evidence
  ledger, and parity matrices that connect claims to proof.
- [Contributor](contributor/index.md): setup, workflows, and project tracking.

Commit message:

docs(re): fire bullets version comparison (#115)
* docs(re): rewrite fire bullets comparison as sectioned report

* docs(re): add zensical list spacing in fire bullets report

* docs(re): format weapon blocks as zensical lists

* docs(re): add per-weapon divergence admonitions

* docs(re): align divergence warnings to fire-bullets count deltas

* docs(re): document fire bullets fire-rate divergence

* docs(re): rewrite fire bullets report with fb/s comparison by weapon class

replace 53 per-weapon sections with 6 behavior classes, add fire
bullets/s rates, document ammo bypass difference. 706 -> 141 lines.

* docs(re): separate non-quest weapons into dedicated section

* docs(re): move Shrinkifier 5k, Blade Gun, Splitter Gun to main sections

* docs(re): add point-blank DPS comparison per weapon

compute single-target DPS at dist=50 using the projectile hit formula.
1.9.8 totals include base weapon + fire bullets, 1.9.93 is fire bullets
only. sorted by DPS within each class to highlight the largest deltas.

* docs(re): refine fire bullets dps wording and fixes

* docs(re): add fire bullets page icon and highlights link

* docs: improve fire bullets highlight description

docs/index.md, after:

---
tags:
  - docs-hub
---

# Crimsonland documentation

A from-scratch rewrite of Crimsonland (2003), aiming for full parity with the
original Windows executable. These docs cover the game's mechanics, the rewrite
implementation, and the reverse engineering work that ties them together.

[Blog post](https://banteg.xyz/posts/crimsonland/) • [Source code](https://github.com/banteg/crimson)

## Play now

Install [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/), then:

```bash
uvx crimsonland@latest
```

## Highlights

- [Perks](mechanics/perks.md): all 58 perks with exact numbers, interaction
  rules, and original bug notes verified against two builds of the binary.

- [Fire Bullets (1.9.8 vs 1.9.93)](re/static/fire-bullets-1.9.8-vs-1.9.93.md):
  how fire bullets changed from an additive bonus (1.9.8) to a full weapon
  replacement (1.9.93), with per-weapon DPS showing most weapons lost 80-95%
  of their output.

## Sections

- [Mechanics](mechanics/index.md): how the game actually plays. Behavior
  specs, reference tables, and game rules written without decompiler details.
- [Rewrite](rewrite/index.md): the Python port. Architecture, module map,
  debug views, and parity status.
- [Reverse engineering](re/index.md): static analysis, runtime probes, struct
  layouts, and file formats extracted from the original binary.
- [Verification](verification/index.md): differential testing, evidence
  ledger, and parity matrices that connect claims to proof.
- [Contributor](contributor/index.md): setup, workflows, and project tracking.
