docs/quest-builders.md, before:

---
tags:
  - status-parity
---

# Quest builders
This document lists the quest builder pointer assigned to each quest in
`quest_database_init` (`FUN_00439230`). Builder symbols are defined in
`analysis/ghidra/maps/name_map.json`.

Notes:

- `Start Weapon (id)` is `quest_start_weapon_id` (1-based weapon id).
- `Time (ms)` is `quest_meta_time_limit_ms`.
- `Builder` is the named function symbol used for the quest spawn script.
- `Terrain A/B/C` are the quest metadata terrain texture indices at offsets
  `0x10`, `0x14`, `0x18`. `terrain_generate` samples three texture layers using
  these ids. `FUN_00430a20` sets them as:

  - Tiers 1–4: `A = 2*(tier-1)`, `B/C` swap between the odd/even pair after quest 5.
  - Tier 5: `A = quest_index & 0x3`, `B = 1`, `C = 3`.

### Terrain texture indices

The indices below are used by `terrain_generate` to index `DAT_0048f548`, which
is populated by `init_audio_and_terrain`:

| Index | Texture asset |
| --- | --- |
| 0 | `ter/ter_q1_base.jaz` |
| 1 | `ter/ter_q1_tex1.jaz` |
| 2 | `ter/ter_q2_base.jaz` |
| 3 | `ter/ter_q2_tex1.jaz` |
| 4 | `ter/ter_q3_base.jaz` |
| 5 | `ter/ter_q3_tex1.jaz` |
| 6 | `ter/ter_q4_base.jaz` |
| 7 | `ter/ter_q4_tex1.jaz` |

When terrain textures fail to load, indices `0..3` are replaced with fallback
textures (`ter/fb_q1..q4.jaz`) and only `Terrain A` is used.

## Quest -> builder table
| Tier | Quest | Title | Start Weapon (id) | Time (ms) | Terrain A | Terrain B | Terrain C | Builder | Address |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | 1 | Land Hostile | 1 | 120000 | 0x00 | 0x01 | 0x00 | quest_build_land_hostile | 0x00435bd0 |
| 1 | 2 | Minor Alien Breach | 1 | 120000 | 0x00 | 0x01 | 0x00 | quest_build_minor_alien_breach | 0x00435cc0 |
| 1 | 3 | Target Practice | 1 | 65000 | 0x00 | 0x01 | 0x00 | quest_build_target_practice | 0x00437a00 |
| 1 | 4 | Frontline Assault | 1 | 300000 | 0x00 | 0x01 | 0x00 | quest_build_frontline_assault | 0x00437e10 |
| 1 | 5 | Alien Dens | 1 | 180000 | 0x00 | 0x01 | 0x00 | quest_build_alien_dens | 0x00436720 |
| 1 | 6 | The Random Factor | 1 | 300000 | 0x00 | 0x00 | 0x01 | quest_build_the_random_factor | 0x00436350 |
| 1 | 7 | Spider Wave Syndrome | 1 | 240000 | 0x00 | 0x00 | 0x01 | quest_build_spider_wave_syndrome | 0x00436440 |
| 1 | 8 | Alien Squads | 1 | 180000 | 0x00 | 0x00 | 0x01 | quest_build_alien_squads | 0x00435ea0 |
| 1 | 9 | Nesting Grounds | 1 | 240000 | 0x00 | 0x00 | 0x01 | quest_build_nesting_grounds | 0x004364a0 |
| 1 | 10 | 8-legged Terror | 1 | 240000 | 0x00 | 0x00 | 0x01 | quest_build_8_legged_terror | 0x00436120 |
| 2 | 1 | Everred Pastures | 1 | 300000 | 0x02 | 0x03 | 0x02 | quest_build_everred_pastures | 0x004375a0 |
| 2 | 2 | Spider Spawns | 1 | 300000 | 0x02 | 0x03 | 0x02 | quest_build_spider_spawns | 0x00436d70 |
| 2 | 3 | Arachnoid Farm | 1 | 240000 | 0x02 | 0x03 | 0x02 | quest_build_arachnoid_farm | 0x00436820 |
| 2 | 4 | Two Fronts | 1 | 240000 | 0x02 | 0x03 | 0x02 | quest_build_two_fronts | 0x00436ee0 |
| 2 | 5 | Sweep Stakes | 6 | 35000 | 0x02 | 0x03 | 0x02 | quest_build_sweep_stakes | 0x00437810 |
| 2 | 6 | Evil Zombies At Large | 1 | 180000 | 0x02 | 0x02 | 0x03 | quest_build_evil_zombies_at_large | 0x004374a0 |
| 2 | 7 | Survival Of The Fastest | 5 | 120000 | 0x02 | 0x02 | 0x03 | quest_build_survival_of_the_fastest | 0x00437060 |
| 2 | 8 | Land Of Lizards | 1 | 180000 | 0x02 | 0x02 | 0x03 | quest_build_land_of_lizards | 0x00437ba0 |
| 2 | 9 | Ghost Patrols | 1 | 180000 | 0x02 | 0x02 | 0x03 | quest_build_ghost_patrols | 0x00436200 |
| 2 | 10 | Spideroids | 1 | 360000 | 0x02 | 0x02 | 0x03 | quest_build_spideroids | 0x004373c0 |
| 3 | 1 | The Blighting | 1 | 300000 | 0x04 | 0x05 | 0x04 | quest_build_the_blighting | 0x00438050 |
| 3 | 2 | Lizard Kings | 1 | 180000 | 0x04 | 0x05 | 0x04 | quest_build_lizard_kings | 0x00437710 |
| 3 | 3 | The Killing | 1 | 300000 | 0x04 | 0x05 | 0x04 | quest_build_the_killing | 0x004384a0 |
| 3 | 4 | Hidden Evil | 1 | 300000 | 0x04 | 0x05 | 0x04 | quest_build_hidden_evil | 0x00435a30 |
| 3 | 5 | Surrounded By Reptiles | 1 | 300000 | 0x04 | 0x05 | 0x04 | quest_build_surrounded_by_reptiles | 0x00438940 |
| 3 | 6 | The Lizquidation | 1 | 300000 | 0x04 | 0x04 | 0x05 | quest_build_the_lizquidation | 0x00437c70 |
| 3 | 7 | Spiders Inc. | 11 | 300000 | 0x04 | 0x04 | 0x05 | quest_build_spiders_inc | 0x004390d0 |
| 3 | 8 | Lizard Raze | 1 | 300000 | 0x04 | 0x04 | 0x05 | quest_build_lizard_raze | 0x00438840 |
| 3 | 9 | Deja vu | 6 | 120000 | 0x04 | 0x04 | 0x05 | quest_build_deja_vu | 0x00437920 |
| 3 | 10 | Zombie Masters | 1 | 300000 | 0x04 | 0x04 | 0x05 | quest_build_zombie_masters | 0x004360a0 |
| 4 | 1 | Major Alien Breach | 18 | 300000 | 0x06 | 0x07 | 0x06 | quest_build_major_alien_breach | 0x00437af0 |
| 4 | 2 | Zombie Time | 1 | 300000 | 0x06 | 0x07 | 0x06 | quest_build_zombie_time | 0x00437d70 |
| 4 | 3 | Lizard Zombie Pact | 1 | 300000 | 0x06 | 0x07 | 0x06 | quest_build_lizard_zombie_pact | 0x00438700 |
| 4 | 4 | The Collaboration | 1 | 360000 | 0x06 | 0x07 | 0x06 | quest_build_the_collaboration | 0x00437f30 |
| 4 | 5 | The Massacre | 1 | 300000 | 0x06 | 0x07 | 0x06 | quest_build_the_massacre | 0x004383e0 |
| 4 | 6 | The Unblitzkrieg | 1 | 600000 | 0x06 | 0x06 | 0x07 | quest_build_the_unblitzkrieg | 0x00438a40 |
| 4 | 7 | Gauntlet | 1 | 300000 | 0x06 | 0x06 | 0x07 | quest_build_gauntlet | 0x004369a0 |
| 4 | 8 | Syntax Terror | 1 | 300000 | 0x06 | 0x06 | 0x07 | quest_build_syntax_terror | 0x00436c10 |
| 4 | 9 | The Annihilation | 1 | 300000 | 0x06 | 0x06 | 0x07 | quest_build_the_annihilation | 0x004382c0 |
| 4 | 10 | The End of All | 1 | 480000 | 0x06 | 0x06 | 0x07 | quest_build_the_end_of_all | 0x00438e10 |
| 5 | 1 | The Beating | 1 | 480000 | 0x01 | 0x01 | 0x03 | quest_build_the_beating | 0x00435610 |
| 5 | 2 | The Spanking Of The Dead | 1 | 480000 | 0x02 | 0x01 | 0x03 | quest_build_the_spanking_of_the_dead | 0x004358a0 |
| 5 | 3 | The Fortress | 1 | 480000 | 0x03 | 0x01 | 0x03 | quest_build_the_fortress | 0x004352d0 |
| 5 | 4 | The Gang Wars | 1 | 480000 | 0x00 | 0x01 | 0x03 | quest_build_the_gang_wars | 0x00435120 |
| 5 | 5 | Knee-deep in the Dead | 1 | 480000 | 0x01 | 0x01 | 0x03 | quest_build_knee_deep_in_the_dead | 0x00434f00 |
| 5 | 6 | Cross Fire | 1 | 480000 | 0x02 | 0x01 | 0x03 | quest_build_cross_fire | 0x00435480 |
| 5 | 7 | Army of Three | 1 | 480000 | 0x03 | 0x01 | 0x03 | quest_build_army_of_three | 0x00434ca0 |
| 5 | 8 | Monster Blues | 1 | 480000 | 0x00 | 0x01 | 0x03 | quest_build_monster_blues | 0x00434860 |
| 5 | 9 | Nagolipoli | 1 | 480000 | 0x01 | 0x01 | 0x03 | quest_build_nagolipoli | 0x00434480 |
| 5 | 10 | The Gathering | 1 | 480000 | 0x02 | 0x01 | 0x03 | quest_build_the_gathering | 0x004349c0 |

## Builder notes (known implementations)

The builders below have explicit function bodies in the current Ghidra export.
Spawn ids include mapped creature names from `src/crimson/spawn_templates.py`.

- `quest_build_fallback` (`0x004343e0`): two spawn entries at x = -50, y = terrain_height * 0.5
  with spawn id `0x40` (spider_sp1), trigger times `500` / `5000`, and counts `10` / `0x14`.

- `quest_build_the_random_factor` (`0x00436350`): alternating left/right spawns using spawn id
  `0x1d` (alien) at `1500ms` + `10000ms` steps (right side at `t`, left side at `t+200`), counts
  scale with player count. Randomly (when `rand % 5 == 3`) adds a center wave using spawn id
  `0x29` (alien) at y = `1088`, count = player count.

- `quest_build_spider_wave_syndrome` (`0x00436440`): repeated left-side spawns using spawn id
  `0x40` (spider_sp1) from `1500ms`, step `5500ms`, until `100500ms`, count = `player_count * 2 + 6`.

- `quest_build_zombie_time` (`0x00437d70`): paired left/right waves using spawn id `0x41` (zombie)
  every `8000ms` from `1500ms` to `97500ms`, count `8` per side.

- `quest_build_lizard_raze` (`0x00438840`): paired left/right waves using spawn id `0x2e` (lizard)
  every `6000ms` from `1500ms` to `91500ms`, count `6` per side, plus three fixed spawns
  (spawn id `0x0c` (alien), time `10000ms`, count `1`) at (x=128, y=256/384/512).

- `quest_build_surrounded_by_reptiles` (`0x00438940`):
  - Phase 1: spawn id `0x0d` (alien) pairs at x = 256 and x = 768, times `1000..4200` step `800`,
    y = `256 + 0.2 * local_4` where `local_4` steps by `0x200`.

  - Phase 2: spawn id `0x0d` (alien) pairs at y = 256 and y = 768, times `8000..11200` step `800`,
    x = `256 + 0.2 * local_4`.

## Quest spawn scripts

Spawn scripts are captured as code in `src/crimson/quests/` (Tier 1 in
`src/crimson/quests/tier1.py`, Tier 2 in `src/crimson/quests/tier2.py`). Use the
CLI (`crimson quests <level>`) to print the resolved entries for a given quest,
including creature labels from `src/crimson/spawn_templates.py`.

## Validation notes

- The Spanking Of The Dead (5.2) uses 132 (0x84) entries; validated on 2026-01-19
  with `scripts/frida/quest_spanking_count.js`, which writes to
  `C:\share\frida\crimsonland_quest_counts.jsonl` (copied into `artifacts/frida/share/`).

- Runtime quest-build capture on 2026-01-19 (`scripts/frida/quest_build_dump.js`,
  output summarized in `analysis/frida/quest_builds_summary.json`) matches the Python
  reimplementation for deterministic fields (x/y/spawn_id/trigger/count) across
  all non-random quests. Randomized quests (1.3, 1.6, 2.5, 3.3, 3.9) vary by RNG.

- Heading values often appear uninitialized in the runtime table for builders that
  do not explicitly write headings, so treat heading as undefined unless the quest
  explicitly sets it.

- Spawn template ids are now mapped to creature types via `creature_spawn_template`,
  exported in `src/crimson/spawn_templates.py`.

## Open questions

- Confirm heading semantics for Target Practice (current heading is derived from the spawn angle).

Commit message:

docs(spawning): document creature_spawn_template algorithm

docs/quest-builders.md, after:

---
tags:
  - status-parity
---

# Quest builders
This document lists the quest builder pointer assigned to each quest in
`quest_database_init` (`FUN_00439230`). Builder symbols are defined in
`analysis/ghidra/maps/name_map.json`.

Notes:

- `Start Weapon (id)` is `quest_start_weapon_id` (1-based weapon id).
- `Time (ms)` is `quest_meta_time_limit_ms`.
- `Builder` is the named function symbol used for the quest spawn script.
- `Terrain A/B/C` are the quest metadata terrain texture indices at offsets
  `0x10`, `0x14`, `0x18`. `terrain_generate` samples three texture layers using
  these ids. `FUN_00430a20` sets them as:

  - Tiers 1–4: `A = 2*(tier-1)`, `B/C` swap between the odd/even pair after quest 5.
  - Tier 5: `A = quest_index & 0x3`, `B = 1`, `C = 3`.

### Terrain texture indices

The indices below are used by `terrain_generate` to index `DAT_0048f548`, which
is populated by `init_audio_and_terrain`:

| Index | Texture asset |
| --- | --- |
| 0 | `ter/ter_q1_base.jaz` |
| 1 | `ter/ter_q1_tex1.jaz` |
| 2 | `ter/ter_q2_base.jaz` |
| 3 | `ter/ter_q2_tex1.jaz` |
| 4 | `ter/ter_q3_base.jaz` |
| 5 | `ter/ter_q3_tex1.jaz` |
| 6 | `ter/ter_q4_base.jaz` |
| 7 | `ter/ter_q4_tex1.jaz` |

When terrain textures fail to load, indices `0..3` are replaced with fallback
textures (`ter/fb_q1..q4.jaz`) and only `Terrain A` is used.

## Quest -> builder table
| Tier | Quest | Title | Start Weapon (id) | Time (ms) | Terrain A | Terrain B | Terrain C | Builder | Address |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 | 1 | Land Hostile | 1 | 120000 | 0x00 | 0x01 | 0x00 | quest_build_land_hostile | 0x00435bd0 |
| 1 | 2 | Minor Alien Breach | 1 | 120000 | 0x00 | 0x01 | 0x00 | quest_build_minor_alien_breach | 0x00435cc0 |
| 1 | 3 | Target Practice | 1 | 65000 | 0x00 | 0x01 | 0x00 | quest_build_target_practice | 0x00437a00 |
| 1 | 4 | Frontline Assault | 1 | 300000 | 0x00 | 0x01 | 0x00 | quest_build_frontline_assault | 0x00437e10 |
| 1 | 5 | Alien Dens | 1 | 180000 | 0x00 | 0x01 | 0x00 | quest_build_alien_dens | 0x00436720 |
| 1 | 6 | The Random Factor | 1 | 300000 | 0x00 | 0x00 | 0x01 | quest_build_the_random_factor | 0x00436350 |
| 1 | 7 | Spider Wave Syndrome | 1 | 240000 | 0x00 | 0x00 | 0x01 | quest_build_spider_wave_syndrome | 0x00436440 |
| 1 | 8 | Alien Squads | 1 | 180000 | 0x00 | 0x00 | 0x01 | quest_build_alien_squads | 0x00435ea0 |
| 1 | 9 | Nesting Grounds | 1 | 240000 | 0x00 | 0x00 | 0x01 | quest_build_nesting_grounds | 0x004364a0 |
| 1 | 10 | 8-legged Terror | 1 | 240000 | 0x00 | 0x00 | 0x01 | quest_build_8_legged_terror | 0x00436120 |
| 2 | 1 | Everred Pastures | 1 | 300000 | 0x02 | 0x03 | 0x02 | quest_build_everred_pastures | 0x004375a0 |
| 2 | 2 | Spider Spawns | 1 | 300000 | 0x02 | 0x03 | 0x02 | quest_build_spider_spawns | 0x00436d70 |
| 2 | 3 | Arachnoid Farm | 1 | 240000 | 0x02 | 0x03 | 0x02 | quest_build_arachnoid_farm | 0x00436820 |
| 2 | 4 | Two Fronts | 1 | 240000 | 0x02 | 0x03 | 0x02 | quest_build_two_fronts | 0x00436ee0 |
| 2 | 5 | Sweep Stakes | 6 | 35000 | 0x02 | 0x03 | 0x02 | quest_build_sweep_stakes | 0x00437810 |
| 2 | 6 | Evil Zombies At Large | 1 | 180000 | 0x02 | 0x02 | 0x03 | quest_build_evil_zombies_at_large | 0x004374a0 |
| 2 | 7 | Survival Of The Fastest | 5 | 120000 | 0x02 | 0x02 | 0x03 | quest_build_survival_of_the_fastest | 0x00437060 |
| 2 | 8 | Land Of Lizards | 1 | 180000 | 0x02 | 0x02 | 0x03 | quest_build_land_of_lizards | 0x00437ba0 |
| 2 | 9 | Ghost Patrols | 1 | 180000 | 0x02 | 0x02 | 0x03 | quest_build_ghost_patrols | 0x00436200 |
| 2 | 10 | Spideroids | 1 | 360000 | 0x02 | 0x02 | 0x03 | quest_build_spideroids | 0x004373c0 |
| 3 | 1 | The Blighting | 1 | 300000 | 0x04 | 0x05 | 0x04 | quest_build_the_blighting | 0x00438050 |
| 3 | 2 | Lizard Kings | 1 | 180000 | 0x04 | 0x05 | 0x04 | quest_build_lizard_kings | 0x00437710 |
| 3 | 3 | The Killing | 1 | 300000 | 0x04 | 0x05 | 0x04 | quest_build_the_killing | 0x004384a0 |
| 3 | 4 | Hidden Evil | 1 | 300000 | 0x04 | 0x05 | 0x04 | quest_build_hidden_evil | 0x00435a30 |
| 3 | 5 | Surrounded By Reptiles | 1 | 300000 | 0x04 | 0x05 | 0x04 | quest_build_surrounded_by_reptiles | 0x00438940 |
| 3 | 6 | The Lizquidation | 1 | 300000 | 0x04 | 0x04 | 0x05 | quest_build_the_lizquidation | 0x00437c70 |
| 3 | 7 | Spiders Inc. | 11 | 300000 | 0x04 | 0x04 | 0x05 | quest_build_spiders_inc | 0x004390d0 |
| 3 | 8 | Lizard Raze | 1 | 300000 | 0x04 | 0x04 | 0x05 | quest_build_lizard_raze | 0x00438840 |
| 3 | 9 | Deja vu | 6 | 120000 | 0x04 | 0x04 | 0x05 | quest_build_deja_vu | 0x00437920 |
| 3 | 10 | Zombie Masters | 1 | 300000 | 0x04 | 0x04 | 0x05 | quest_build_zombie_masters | 0x004360a0 |
| 4 | 1 | Major Alien Breach | 18 | 300000 | 0x06 | 0x07 | 0x06 | quest_build_major_alien_breach | 0x00437af0 |
| 4 | 2 | Zombie Time | 1 | 300000 | 0x06 | 0x07 | 0x06 | quest_build_zombie_time | 0x00437d70 |
| 4 | 3 | Lizard Zombie Pact | 1 | 300000 | 0x06 | 0x07 | 0x06 | quest_build_lizard_zombie_pact | 0x00438700 |
| 4 | 4 | The Collaboration | 1 | 360000 | 0x06 | 0x07 | 0x06 | quest_build_the_collaboration | 0x00437f30 |
| 4 | 5 | The Massacre | 1 | 300000 | 0x06 | 0x07 | 0x06 | quest_build_the_massacre | 0x004383e0 |
| 4 | 6 | The Unblitzkrieg | 1 | 600000 | 0x06 | 0x06 | 0x07 | quest_build_the_unblitzkrieg | 0x00438a40 |
| 4 | 7 | Gauntlet | 1 | 300000 | 0x06 | 0x06 | 0x07 | quest_build_gauntlet | 0x004369a0 |
| 4 | 8 | Syntax Terror | 1 | 300000 | 0x06 | 0x06 | 0x07 | quest_build_syntax_terror | 0x00436c10 |
| 4 | 9 | The Annihilation | 1 | 300000 | 0x06 | 0x06 | 0x07 | quest_build_the_annihilation | 0x004382c0 |
| 4 | 10 | The End of All | 1 | 480000 | 0x06 | 0x06 | 0x07 | quest_build_the_end_of_all | 0x00438e10 |
| 5 | 1 | The Beating | 1 | 480000 | 0x01 | 0x01 | 0x03 | quest_build_the_beating | 0x00435610 |
| 5 | 2 | The Spanking Of The Dead | 1 | 480000 | 0x02 | 0x01 | 0x03 | quest_build_the_spanking_of_the_dead | 0x004358a0 |
| 5 | 3 | The Fortress | 1 | 480000 | 0x03 | 0x01 | 0x03 | quest_build_the_fortress | 0x004352d0 |
| 5 | 4 | The Gang Wars | 1 | 480000 | 0x00 | 0x01 | 0x03 | quest_build_the_gang_wars | 0x00435120 |
| 5 | 5 | Knee-deep in the Dead | 1 | 480000 | 0x01 | 0x01 | 0x03 | quest_build_knee_deep_in_the_dead | 0x00434f00 |
| 5 | 6 | Cross Fire | 1 | 480000 | 0x02 | 0x01 | 0x03 | quest_build_cross_fire | 0x00435480 |
| 5 | 7 | Army of Three | 1 | 480000 | 0x03 | 0x01 | 0x03 | quest_build_army_of_three | 0x00434ca0 |
| 5 | 8 | Monster Blues | 1 | 480000 | 0x00 | 0x01 | 0x03 | quest_build_monster_blues | 0x00434860 |
| 5 | 9 | Nagolipoli | 1 | 480000 | 0x01 | 0x01 | 0x03 | quest_build_nagolipoli | 0x00434480 |
| 5 | 10 | The Gathering | 1 | 480000 | 0x02 | 0x01 | 0x03 | quest_build_the_gathering | 0x004349c0 |

## Builder notes (known implementations)

The builders below have explicit function bodies in the current Ghidra export.
Spawn ids include mapped creature names from `src/crimson/spawn_templates.py`.

- `quest_build_fallback` (`0x004343e0`): two spawn entries at x = -50, y = terrain_height * 0.5
  with spawn id `0x40` (spider_sp1), trigger times `500` / `5000`, and counts `10` / `0x14`.

- `quest_build_the_random_factor` (`0x00436350`): alternating left/right spawns using spawn id
  `0x1d` (alien) at `1500ms` + `10000ms` steps (right side at `t`, left side at `t+200`), counts
  scale with player count. Randomly (when `rand % 5 == 3`) adds a center wave using spawn id
  `0x29` (alien) at y = `1088`, count = player count.

- `quest_build_spider_wave_syndrome` (`0x00436440`): repeated left-side spawns using spawn id
  `0x40` (spider_sp1) from `1500ms`, step `5500ms`, until `100500ms`, count = `player_count * 2 + 6`.

- `quest_build_zombie_time` (`0x00437d70`): paired left/right waves using spawn id `0x41` (zombie)
  every `8000ms` from `1500ms` to `97500ms`, count `8` per side.

- `quest_build_lizard_raze` (`0x00438840`): paired left/right waves using spawn id `0x2e` (lizard)
  every `6000ms` from `1500ms` to `91500ms`, count `6` per side, plus three fixed spawns
  (spawn id `0x0c` (alien), time `10000ms`, count `1`) at (x=128, y=256/384/512).

- `quest_build_surrounded_by_reptiles` (`0x00438940`):
  - Phase 1: spawn id `0x0d` (alien) pairs at x = 256 and x = 768, times `1000..4200` step `800`,
    y = `256 + 0.2 * local_4` where `local_4` steps by `0x200`.

  - Phase 2: spawn id `0x0d` (alien) pairs at y = 256 and y = 768, times `8000..11200` step `800`,
    x = `256 + 0.2 * local_4`.

## Quest spawn scripts

Spawn scripts are captured as code in `src/crimson/quests/` (Tier 1 in
`src/crimson/quests/tier1.py`, Tier 2 in `src/crimson/quests/tier2.py`). Use the
CLI (`crimson quests <level>`) to print the resolved entries for a given quest,
including creature labels from `src/crimson/spawn_templates.py`.

## Validation notes

- The Spanking Of The Dead (5.2) uses 132 (0x84) entries; validated on 2026-01-19
  with `scripts/frida/quest_spanking_count.js`, which writes to
  `C:\share\frida\crimsonland_quest_counts.jsonl` (copied into `artifacts/frida/share/`).

- Runtime quest-build capture on 2026-01-19 (`scripts/frida/quest_build_dump.js`,
  output summarized in `analysis/frida/quest_builds_summary.json`) matches the Python
  reimplementation for deterministic fields (x/y/spawn_id/trigger/count) across
  all non-random quests. Randomized quests (1.3, 1.6, 2.5, 3.3, 3.9) vary by RNG.

- Heading values often appear uninitialized in the runtime table for builders that
  do not explicitly write headings, so treat heading as undefined unless the quest
  explicitly sets it.

- Quest spawn ids (`spawn_id`) are interpreted by `creature_spawn_template` (`FUN_00430af0`), which is
  an algorithm (it can spawn formations, configure spawn slots, and applies difficulty/hardcore tail
  modifiers). For human-readable labels we use the partial index in `src/crimson/spawn_templates.py`.

## Open questions

- Confirm heading semantics for Target Practice (current heading is derived from the spawn angle).
