docs/sfx-labels.md, before:

# SFX label suggestions

Suggested data label names derived from [SFX ID map](sfx-id-map.md).
These are meant for manual Ghidra labeling (ApplyNameMap only renames functions).

| Var | File | Suggested label |
| --- | --- | --- |
| DAT_004c3f00 | trooper_inPain_01.ogg | sfx_trooper_inpain_01 |
| DAT_004c3f04 | trooper_inPain_02.ogg | sfx_trooper_inpain_02 |
| DAT_004c3f0c | trooper_die_01.ogg | sfx_trooper_die_01 |
| DAT_004c3f10 | trooper_die_02.ogg | sfx_trooper_die_02 |
| DAT_004c3f14 | trooper_die_03.ogg | sfx_trooper_die_03 |
| DAT_004c3f18 | zombie_die_01.ogg | sfx_zombie_die_01 |
| DAT_004c3f1c | zombie_die_02.ogg | sfx_zombie_die_02 |
| DAT_004c3f20 | zombie_die_03.ogg | sfx_zombie_die_03 |
| DAT_004c3f24 | zombie_die_04.ogg | sfx_zombie_die_04 |
| DAT_004c3f28 | zombie_attack_01.ogg | sfx_zombie_attack_01 |
| DAT_004c3f2c | zombie_attack_02.ogg | sfx_zombie_attack_02 |
| DAT_004c3f30 | alien_die_01.ogg | sfx_alien_die_01 |
| DAT_004c3f34 | alien_die_02.ogg | sfx_alien_die_02 |
| DAT_004c3f38 | alien_die_03.ogg | sfx_alien_die_03 |
| DAT_004c3f3c | alien_die_04.ogg | sfx_alien_die_04 |
| DAT_004c3f40 | alien_attack_01.ogg | sfx_alien_attack_01 |
| DAT_004c3f44 | alien_attack_02.ogg | sfx_alien_attack_02 |
| DAT_004c3f48 | lizard_die_01.ogg | sfx_lizard_die_01 |
| DAT_004c3f4c | lizard_die_02.ogg | sfx_lizard_die_02 |
| DAT_004c3f50 | lizard_die_03.ogg | sfx_lizard_die_03 |
| DAT_004c3f54 | lizard_die_04.ogg | sfx_lizard_die_04 |
| DAT_004c3f58 | lizard_attack_01.ogg | sfx_lizard_attack_01 |
| DAT_004c3f5c | lizard_attack_02.ogg | sfx_lizard_attack_02 |
| DAT_004c3f60 | spider_die_01.ogg | sfx_spider_die_01 |
| DAT_004c3f64 | spider_die_02.ogg | sfx_spider_die_02 |
| DAT_004c3f68 | spider_die_03.ogg | sfx_spider_die_03 |
| DAT_004c3f6c | spider_die_04.ogg | sfx_spider_die_04 |
| DAT_004c3f70 | spider_attack_01.ogg | sfx_spider_attack_01 |
| DAT_004c3f74 | spider_attack_02.ogg | sfx_spider_attack_02 |
| DAT_004c3f78 | pistol_fire.ogg | sfx_pistol_fire |
| DAT_004c3f7c | pistol_reload.ogg | sfx_pistol_reload |
| DAT_004c3f80 | shotgun_fire.ogg | sfx_shotgun_fire |
| DAT_004c3f84 | shotgun_reload.ogg | sfx_shotgun_reload |
| DAT_004c3f88 | autorifle_fire.ogg | sfx_autorifle_fire |
| DAT_004c3f8c | autorifle_reload.ogg | sfx_autorifle_reload |
| DAT_004c3f90 | gauss_fire.ogg | sfx_gauss_fire |
| DAT_004c3f98 | hrpm_fire.ogg | sfx_hrpm_fire |
| DAT_004c3f9c | shock_fire.ogg | sfx_shock_fire |
| DAT_004c3fa0 | plasmaMinigun_fire.ogg | sfx_plasmaminigun_fire |
| DAT_004c3fa4 | plasmaShotgun_fire.ogg | sfx_plasmashotgun_fire |
| DAT_004c3fa8 | pulse_fire.ogg | sfx_pulse_fire |
| DAT_004c3fac | flamer_fire_01.ogg | sfx_flamer_fire_01 |
| DAT_004c3fb0 | flamer_fire_02.ogg | sfx_flamer_fire_02 |
| DAT_004c3fb4 | shock_fire.ogg | sfx_shock_fire |
| DAT_004c3fb8 | shockMinigun_fire.ogg | sfx_shockminigun_fire |
| DAT_004c3fbc | shock_reload.ogg | sfx_shock_reload |
| DAT_004c3fc0 | rocket_fire.ogg | sfx_rocket_fire |
| DAT_004c3fc4 | rocketmini_fire.ogg | sfx_rocketmini_fire |
| DAT_004c3fc8 | autorifle_reload.ogg | sfx_autorifle_reload |
| DAT_004c3fcc | bullet_hit_01.ogg | sfx_bullet_hit_01 |
| DAT_004c3fe4 | shock_hit_01.ogg | sfx_shock_hit_01 |
| DAT_004c3fe8 | explosion_small.ogg | sfx_explosion_small |
| DAT_004c3fec | explosion_medium.ogg | sfx_explosion_medium |
| DAT_004c3ff0 | explosion_large.ogg | sfx_explosion_large |
| DAT_004c3ff4 | shockwave.ogg | sfx_shockwave |
| DAT_004c3ff8 | questHit.ogg | sfx_questhit |
| DAT_004c3ffc | ui_bonus.ogg | sfx_ui_bonus |
| DAT_004c400c | ui_buttonClick.ogg | sfx_ui_buttonclick |
| DAT_004c4010 | ui_panelClick.ogg | sfx_ui_panelclick |
| DAT_004c4014 | ui_levelUp.ogg | sfx_ui_levelup |
| DAT_004c4020 | ui_typeEnter.ogg | sfx_ui_typeenter |
| DAT_004c4024 | ui_clink_01.ogg | sfx_ui_clink_01 |
| DAT_004c4028 | bloodSpill_01.ogg | sfx_bloodspill_01 |
| _DAT_004c3f08 | trooper_inPain_03.ogg | sfx_trooper_inpain_03 |
| _DAT_004c3fd0 | bullet_hit_02.ogg | sfx_bullet_hit_02 |
| _DAT_004c3fd4 | bullet_hit_03.ogg | sfx_bullet_hit_03 |
| _DAT_004c3fd8 | bullet_hit_04.ogg | sfx_bullet_hit_04 |
| _DAT_004c3fdc | bullet_hit_05.ogg | sfx_bullet_hit_05 |
| _DAT_004c3fe0 | bullet_hit_06.ogg | sfx_bullet_hit_06 |
| _DAT_004c4018 | ui_typeClick_01.ogg | sfx_ui_typeclick_01 |
| _DAT_004c401c | ui_typeClick_02.ogg | sfx_ui_typeclick_02 |
| _DAT_004c402c | bloodSpill_02.ogg | sfx_bloodspill_02 |

## Aliases

| Var | Aliases | Suggested label |
| --- | --- | --- |
| _DAT_004c4000 | DAT_004c3f00 | sfx_trooper_inpain_01 |
| DAT_004c4004 | DAT_004c3f00 | sfx_trooper_inpain_01 |
| _DAT_004c4008 | DAT_004c3f00 | sfx_trooper_inpain_01 |

Commit message:

chore: add ghidra data label pipeline

docs/sfx-labels.md, after:

# SFX label suggestions

Suggested data label names derived from [SFX ID map](sfx-id-map.md).
These can be copied into `source/ghidra/data_map.json` and applied with
`ApplyDataMap.java` during headless analysis.

| Var | File | Suggested label |
| --- | --- | --- |
| DAT_004c3f00 | trooper_inPain_01.ogg | sfx_trooper_inpain_01 |
| DAT_004c3f04 | trooper_inPain_02.ogg | sfx_trooper_inpain_02 |
| DAT_004c3f0c | trooper_die_01.ogg | sfx_trooper_die_01 |
| DAT_004c3f10 | trooper_die_02.ogg | sfx_trooper_die_02 |
| DAT_004c3f14 | trooper_die_03.ogg | sfx_trooper_die_03 |
| DAT_004c3f18 | zombie_die_01.ogg | sfx_zombie_die_01 |
| DAT_004c3f1c | zombie_die_02.ogg | sfx_zombie_die_02 |
| DAT_004c3f20 | zombie_die_03.ogg | sfx_zombie_die_03 |
| DAT_004c3f24 | zombie_die_04.ogg | sfx_zombie_die_04 |
| DAT_004c3f28 | zombie_attack_01.ogg | sfx_zombie_attack_01 |
| DAT_004c3f2c | zombie_attack_02.ogg | sfx_zombie_attack_02 |
| DAT_004c3f30 | alien_die_01.ogg | sfx_alien_die_01 |
| DAT_004c3f34 | alien_die_02.ogg | sfx_alien_die_02 |
| DAT_004c3f38 | alien_die_03.ogg | sfx_alien_die_03 |
| DAT_004c3f3c | alien_die_04.ogg | sfx_alien_die_04 |
| DAT_004c3f40 | alien_attack_01.ogg | sfx_alien_attack_01 |
| DAT_004c3f44 | alien_attack_02.ogg | sfx_alien_attack_02 |
| DAT_004c3f48 | lizard_die_01.ogg | sfx_lizard_die_01 |
| DAT_004c3f4c | lizard_die_02.ogg | sfx_lizard_die_02 |
| DAT_004c3f50 | lizard_die_03.ogg | sfx_lizard_die_03 |
| DAT_004c3f54 | lizard_die_04.ogg | sfx_lizard_die_04 |
| DAT_004c3f58 | lizard_attack_01.ogg | sfx_lizard_attack_01 |
| DAT_004c3f5c | lizard_attack_02.ogg | sfx_lizard_attack_02 |
| DAT_004c3f60 | spider_die_01.ogg | sfx_spider_die_01 |
| DAT_004c3f64 | spider_die_02.ogg | sfx_spider_die_02 |
| DAT_004c3f68 | spider_die_03.ogg | sfx_spider_die_03 |
| DAT_004c3f6c | spider_die_04.ogg | sfx_spider_die_04 |
| DAT_004c3f70 | spider_attack_01.ogg | sfx_spider_attack_01 |
| DAT_004c3f74 | spider_attack_02.ogg | sfx_spider_attack_02 |
| DAT_004c3f78 | pistol_fire.ogg | sfx_pistol_fire |
| DAT_004c3f7c | pistol_reload.ogg | sfx_pistol_reload |
| DAT_004c3f80 | shotgun_fire.ogg | sfx_shotgun_fire |
| DAT_004c3f84 | shotgun_reload.ogg | sfx_shotgun_reload |
| DAT_004c3f88 | autorifle_fire.ogg | sfx_autorifle_fire |
| DAT_004c3f8c | autorifle_reload.ogg | sfx_autorifle_reload |
| DAT_004c3f90 | gauss_fire.ogg | sfx_gauss_fire |
| DAT_004c3f98 | hrpm_fire.ogg | sfx_hrpm_fire |
| DAT_004c3f9c | shock_fire.ogg | sfx_shock_fire |
| DAT_004c3fa0 | plasmaMinigun_fire.ogg | sfx_plasmaminigun_fire |
| DAT_004c3fa4 | plasmaShotgun_fire.ogg | sfx_plasmashotgun_fire |
| DAT_004c3fa8 | pulse_fire.ogg | sfx_pulse_fire |
| DAT_004c3fac | flamer_fire_01.ogg | sfx_flamer_fire_01 |
| DAT_004c3fb0 | flamer_fire_02.ogg | sfx_flamer_fire_02 |
| DAT_004c3fb4 | shock_fire.ogg | sfx_shock_fire |
| DAT_004c3fb8 | shockMinigun_fire.ogg | sfx_shockminigun_fire |
| DAT_004c3fbc | shock_reload.ogg | sfx_shock_reload |
| DAT_004c3fc0 | rocket_fire.ogg | sfx_rocket_fire |
| DAT_004c3fc4 | rocketmini_fire.ogg | sfx_rocketmini_fire |
| DAT_004c3fc8 | autorifle_reload.ogg | sfx_autorifle_reload |
| DAT_004c3fcc | bullet_hit_01.ogg | sfx_bullet_hit_01 |
| DAT_004c3fe4 | shock_hit_01.ogg | sfx_shock_hit_01 |
| DAT_004c3fe8 | explosion_small.ogg | sfx_explosion_small |
| DAT_004c3fec | explosion_medium.ogg | sfx_explosion_medium |
| DAT_004c3ff0 | explosion_large.ogg | sfx_explosion_large |
| DAT_004c3ff4 | shockwave.ogg | sfx_shockwave |
| DAT_004c3ff8 | questHit.ogg | sfx_questhit |
| DAT_004c3ffc | ui_bonus.ogg | sfx_ui_bonus |
| DAT_004c400c | ui_buttonClick.ogg | sfx_ui_buttonclick |
| DAT_004c4010 | ui_panelClick.ogg | sfx_ui_panelclick |
| DAT_004c4014 | ui_levelUp.ogg | sfx_ui_levelup |
| DAT_004c4020 | ui_typeEnter.ogg | sfx_ui_typeenter |
| DAT_004c4024 | ui_clink_01.ogg | sfx_ui_clink_01 |
| DAT_004c4028 | bloodSpill_01.ogg | sfx_bloodspill_01 |
| _DAT_004c3f08 | trooper_inPain_03.ogg | sfx_trooper_inpain_03 |
| _DAT_004c3fd0 | bullet_hit_02.ogg | sfx_bullet_hit_02 |
| _DAT_004c3fd4 | bullet_hit_03.ogg | sfx_bullet_hit_03 |
| _DAT_004c3fd8 | bullet_hit_04.ogg | sfx_bullet_hit_04 |
| _DAT_004c3fdc | bullet_hit_05.ogg | sfx_bullet_hit_05 |
| _DAT_004c3fe0 | bullet_hit_06.ogg | sfx_bullet_hit_06 |
| _DAT_004c4018 | ui_typeClick_01.ogg | sfx_ui_typeclick_01 |
| _DAT_004c401c | ui_typeClick_02.ogg | sfx_ui_typeclick_02 |
| _DAT_004c402c | bloodSpill_02.ogg | sfx_bloodspill_02 |

## Aliases

| Var | Aliases | Suggested label |
| --- | --- | --- |
| _DAT_004c4000 | DAT_004c3f00 | sfx_trooper_inpain_01 |
| DAT_004c4004 | DAT_004c3f00 | sfx_trooper_inpain_01 |
| _DAT_004c4008 | DAT_004c3f00 | sfx_trooper_inpain_01 |
