docs/rewrite/perks-architecture.md, before:

---
tags:
  - gameplay
  - perks
  - status-parity
---

# Perks architecture (rewrite)

This document is the canonical architecture contract for perk runtime behavior in
the Python rewrite.

Goals:

- **Original fidelity**: keep hook order and side effects aligned with native flow.
- **Navigability**: “open a perk file, see that perk’s runtime logic.”
- **Deterministic auditability**: stable RNG consumption and dispatch order for
  differential testing.

## Package layout

Perk runtime code is intentionally split into **three** concerns:

1. **Perk metadata + selection state** (`src/crimson/perks/*.py`)
   - `ids.py`, `helpers.py`, `availability.py`, `selection.py`, `state.py`
   - No per-perk hook ownership in this layer.
2. **Perk implementation ownership** (`src/crimson/perks/impl/*.py`)
   - One module per perk behavior owner.
   - Each module exports exactly one `HOOKS = PerkHooks(...)`.
   - The same file holds the perk’s runtime hook functions.
3. **Runtime dispatch orchestration** (`src/crimson/perks/runtime/*.py`)
   - Hook contracts and contexts (`hook_types.py`, `*_context.py`)
   - Dispatch entry points (`apply.py`, `effects.py`, `player_ticks.py`)
   - Canonical registry (`manifest.py`) that imports all `impl` owners and
     defines parity-critical dispatch ordering.

There are no compatibility re-export wrappers for runtime dispatch. Runtime
ownership/order is authoritative in `src/crimson/perks/runtime/manifest.py`.

## Runtime surfaces

Hook shape is defined in `src/crimson/perks/runtime/hook_types.py`:

- `apply_handler`: immediate on-pick logic (`perk_apply` path)
- `world_dt_step`: frame-dt transforms (e.g. Reflex Boosted)
- `player_tick_steps`: per-player tick hooks inside `player_update`
- `effects_steps`: global per-frame perk effects (`perks_update_effects`)
- `player_death_hook`: death-triggered behavior (e.g. Final Revenge)

`PerkHooks` fields are optional; each perk declares only what it owns.

Example:

```python
HOOKS = PerkHooks(
    perk_id=PerkId.INSTANT_WINNER,
    apply_handler=apply_instant_winner,
)
```

## Dispatch integration points

### 1) Apply-time perks

- Entry: `src/crimson/perks/runtime/apply.py:perk_apply`
- Source: `PERK_APPLY_HANDLERS` derived from `PERK_HOOKS_IN_ORDER`
- Flow:
  1. Increment owner perk count (`adjust_perk_count`).
  2. Run apply handler if registered.
  3. Mirror `perk_counts` from player 0 to other players.

This keeps multiplayer perk-count state deterministic and aligned with native
shared-count behavior.

### 2) World dt hooks

- Entry: `src/crimson/sim/world_state.py:WorldState.step`
- Source: `WORLD_DT_STEPS`
- Runs first, before core simulation work.

### 3) Perk effects hooks

- Entry: `src/crimson/perks/runtime/effects.py:perks_update_effects`
- Source: `PERKS_UPDATE_EFFECT_STEPS`
- Called early in `WorldState.step`, after aim staging and before
  `state.effects.update(...)`.
- `update_player_bonus_timers` is always first in this sequence.

### 4) Player tick hooks

- Entry: `src/crimson/gameplay.py:player_update` via
  `src/crimson/perks/runtime/player_ticks.py:apply_player_perk_ticks`
- Source: `PLAYER_PERK_TICK_STEPS`
- Runs once per player each tick.

### 5) Player death hooks

- Entry: `src/crimson/sim/world_state.py:WorldState.step`
- Source: `PLAYER_DEATH_HOOKS`
- Runs for players transitioning alive -> dead during the current step.

## Ordering and RNG invariants

These rules are parity-critical:

1. `PERK_HOOKS_IN_ORDER` is authoritative for hook dispatch order.
2. Derived registries preserve this order and must not sort/reorder.
3. Adding/removing/reordering hooks can change RNG draw order and differential
   trace behavior, even when gameplay looks similar.
4. Keep perk-side RNG draws inside the perk’s own hook file unless ordering
   evidence requires otherwise.
5. Avoid moving logic between phases (`apply_handler` vs `effects_steps` vs
   `player_tick_steps`) without native evidence.

## Import boundary contracts

`import-linter` contracts enforce anti-drift boundaries in code:

- `crimson.perks.impl` must not import `selection` / `availability`.
- `crimson.perks.runtime` must not import `selection` / `availability`.
- `selection` / `availability` must not import `impl` directly.

This keeps runtime ownership centralized in `runtime/manifest.py` and avoids
split-brain registration paths.

## Anti-drift guardrails

Guard tests live in `tests/test_feature_hook_registries.py`:

- Explicit expected world-dt and death-hook wiring.
- Single runtime owner per perk (`PERK_HOOKS_IN_ORDER` has unique `perk_id`).
- Derived registries are exact projections of manifest entries.
- Effects step prefix invariant (`update_player_bonus_timers` first).

Validation command:

- `just check`

## Contributor workflow for perk changes

When adding or refactoring a perk runtime hook:

1. Implement/update the hook function in `src/crimson/perks/impl/<perk>.py`.
2. Update that module’s `HOOKS = PerkHooks(...)`.
3. Add/update the import + placement in `PERK_HOOKS_IN_ORDER` in
   `src/crimson/perks/runtime/manifest.py`.
4. Keep deterministic behavior explicit:
   - do not normalize parity-sensitive float constants.
   - preserve native guard/branch structure when it affects RNG or timing.
5. Add/update tests:
   - scenario tests for the perk behavior.
   - registry invariant tests if hook shape/order changed.
6. Run `just check`.

## What this architecture intentionally does not do

- It does not try to force all perk behavior through one hook type. Some perks
  are owned by other hot paths by design (`player_take_damage`,
  `creature_apply_damage`, projectile systems, rendering paths).
- It does not hide phase boundaries. The phase where a perk runs is part of the
  parity contract.

Use [perk matrix](perk-matrix.md) with this page:

- `perk-matrix.md` answers “where does this perk run?”
- this page answers “how does perk runtime registration and dispatch work?”

Commit message:

refactor(docs): split perks docs by audience

docs/rewrite/perks-architecture.md, after:

---
tags:
  - gameplay
  - perks
  - status-parity
---

# Perks architecture (rewrite)

This document is the canonical architecture contract for perk runtime behavior in
the Python rewrite.

Goals:

- **Original fidelity**: keep hook order and side effects aligned with native flow.
- **Navigability**: “open a perk file, see that perk’s runtime logic.”
- **Deterministic auditability**: stable RNG consumption and dispatch order for
  differential testing.

## Package layout

Perk runtime code is intentionally split into **three** concerns:

1. **Perk metadata + selection state** (`src/crimson/perks/*.py`)
   - `ids.py`, `helpers.py`, `availability.py`, `selection.py`, `state.py`
   - No per-perk hook ownership in this layer.
2. **Perk implementation ownership** (`src/crimson/perks/impl/*.py`)
   - One module per perk behavior owner.
   - Each module exports exactly one `HOOKS = PerkHooks(...)`.
   - The same file holds the perk’s runtime hook functions.
3. **Runtime dispatch orchestration** (`src/crimson/perks/runtime/*.py`)
   - Hook contracts and contexts (`hook_types.py`, `*_context.py`)
   - Dispatch entry points (`apply.py`, `effects.py`, `player_ticks.py`)
   - Canonical registry (`manifest.py`) that imports all `impl` owners and
     defines parity-critical dispatch ordering.

There are no compatibility re-export wrappers for runtime dispatch. Runtime
ownership/order is authoritative in `src/crimson/perks/runtime/manifest.py`.

## Runtime surfaces

Hook shape is defined in `src/crimson/perks/runtime/hook_types.py`:

- `apply_handler`: immediate on-pick logic (`perk_apply` path)
- `world_dt_step`: frame-dt transforms (e.g. Reflex Boosted)
- `player_tick_steps`: per-player tick hooks inside `player_update`
- `effects_steps`: global per-frame perk effects (`perks_update_effects`)
- `player_death_hook`: death-triggered behavior (e.g. Final Revenge)

`PerkHooks` fields are optional; each perk declares only what it owns.

Example:

```python
HOOKS = PerkHooks(
    perk_id=PerkId.INSTANT_WINNER,
    apply_handler=apply_instant_winner,
)
```

## Dispatch integration points

### 1) Apply-time perks

- Entry: `src/crimson/perks/runtime/apply.py:perk_apply`
- Source: `PERK_APPLY_HANDLERS` derived from `PERK_HOOKS_IN_ORDER`
- Flow:
  1. Increment owner perk count (`adjust_perk_count`).
  2. Run apply handler if registered.
  3. Mirror `perk_counts` from player 0 to other players.

This keeps multiplayer perk-count state deterministic and aligned with native
shared-count behavior.

### 2) World dt hooks

- Entry: `src/crimson/sim/world_state.py:WorldState.step`
- Source: `WORLD_DT_STEPS`
- Runs first, before core simulation work.

### 3) Perk effects hooks

- Entry: `src/crimson/perks/runtime/effects.py:perks_update_effects`
- Source: `PERKS_UPDATE_EFFECT_STEPS`
- Called early in `WorldState.step`, after aim staging and before
  `state.effects.update(...)`.
- `update_player_bonus_timers` is always first in this sequence.

### 4) Player tick hooks

- Entry: `src/crimson/gameplay.py:player_update` via
  `src/crimson/perks/runtime/player_ticks.py:apply_player_perk_ticks`
- Source: `PLAYER_PERK_TICK_STEPS`
- Runs once per player each tick.

### 5) Player death hooks

- Entry: `src/crimson/sim/world_state.py:WorldState.step`
- Source: `PLAYER_DEATH_HOOKS`
- Runs for players transitioning alive -> dead during the current step.

## Ordering and RNG invariants

These rules are parity-critical:

1. `PERK_HOOKS_IN_ORDER` is authoritative for hook dispatch order.
2. Derived registries preserve this order and must not sort/reorder.
3. Adding/removing/reordering hooks can change RNG draw order and differential
   trace behavior, even when gameplay looks similar.
4. Keep perk-side RNG draws inside the perk’s own hook file unless ordering
   evidence requires otherwise.
5. Avoid moving logic between phases (`apply_handler` vs `effects_steps` vs
   `player_tick_steps`) without native evidence.

## Import boundary contracts

`import-linter` contracts enforce anti-drift boundaries in code:

- `crimson.perks.impl` must not import `selection` / `availability`.
- `crimson.perks.runtime` must not import `selection` / `availability`.
- `selection` / `availability` must not import `impl` directly.

This keeps runtime ownership centralized in `runtime/manifest.py` and avoids
split-brain registration paths.

## Anti-drift guardrails

Guard tests live in `tests/test_feature_hook_registries.py`:

- Explicit expected world-dt and death-hook wiring.
- Single runtime owner per perk (`PERK_HOOKS_IN_ORDER` has unique `perk_id`).
- Derived registries are exact projections of manifest entries.
- Effects step prefix invariant (`update_player_bonus_timers` first).

Validation command:

- `just check`

## Contributor workflow for perk changes

When adding or refactoring a perk runtime hook:

1. Implement/update the hook function in `src/crimson/perks/impl/<perk>.py`.
2. Update that module’s `HOOKS = PerkHooks(...)`.
3. Add/update the import + placement in `PERK_HOOKS_IN_ORDER` in
   `src/crimson/perks/runtime/manifest.py`.
4. Keep deterministic behavior explicit:
   - do not normalize parity-sensitive float constants.
   - preserve native guard/branch structure when it affects RNG or timing.
5. Add/update tests:
   - scenario tests for the perk behavior.
   - registry invariant tests if hook shape/order changed.
6. Run `just check`.

## What this architecture intentionally does not do

- It does not try to force all perk behavior through one hook type. Some perks
  are owned by other hot paths by design (`player_take_damage`,
  `creature_apply_damage`, projectile systems, rendering paths).
- It does not hide phase boundaries. The phase where a perk runs is part of the
  parity contract.

Use [Perk runtime reference](../re/static/perks-runtime-reference.md) with this
page:

- `re/static/perks-runtime-reference.md` answers “where does this perk run?”
- this page answers “how does perk runtime registration and dispatch work?”
